# Capstone - Fake News Detection

In today's digital age, social media and online news sources offers quick access to vast amounts of data. Yet the creation and dissemination of fake news poses an emerging challenge as it has the potential to generate mistrust in persons and institutions. There are broadly two types of fake information: misinformation and disinformation. 1) Misinformation refers to information which is incorrect or misleading or taken out of context unsuspectingly shared by people. 2) Disinformation refers to false information spread deliberately with the intent to deceive public opinion. While both mis/disinformation exist because people want to share a certain narrative that aligns with their interests and beliefs, disinformation is more dangerous and damaging because its intention is to destabilize societies. It is meant to influence people's beliefs, attitudes and consequentially, their behavior by purposely only providing one side of a narrative. Nonetheless, disinformation poses a threat to democracy because it reinforces polarizing viewpoints.

The authenticity of news content has become difficult to discern not only because of social media algorithms that determine the content a user sees and interacts with, but because human minds are faulty to judgement about information. Thus, it is imperative to develop tools that can detect fake news to ensure that we are well informed.

This project aims to train a model to identify fake news through twitter posts (now known as X). It will employ machine learning techniques such as natural language processing and eventually use sentiment analysis to assess the credibility of a news story based on the emotion that the words in the statement elicits. The data set is sourced from <https://www.unb.ca/cic/datasets/truthseeker-2023.html> which includes fake and real news.
