# Capstone

Fake information has increased as the age of digitization offers quick creation, dissemination, and access of information. There are broadly two types of fake information: misinformation and disinformation. 1) Misinformation is information which is incorrect or misleading or taken out of context unsuspectingly shared by people. 2) Disinformation is false information spread deliberately with the intent to deceive public opinion. The human mind has several cognitive biases that lead to faulty judgement about information, thus, mis/disinformation can be dangerous and damaging. While both mis/disinformation exist because people want to share a certain narrative that aligns with their interests and beliefs, disinformation is more dangerous and damaging than misinformation. This is because its intention is to destabilize societies. It is meant to influence people’s beliefs, attitudes and consequentially, their behaviour by purposely only providing one side of a narrative. Nonetheless, disinformation can lead to mistrust in people and institutions. Over the long term, it can even pose a threat to democracy because it reinforces polarizing viewpoints. 

As we encounter vast amounts of information on a daily basis, we are all at risk of being human targets to disinformation. Social media platforms can amplify disinformation because social media algorithms determine the content that a user see and interact with. This can create echo chambers in which a person only encounters information or opinions that reflect and reinforce their own. X (formerly known as Twitter), is a social media platform where users are vulnerable to such cases of echo chambers. Nonetheless, X had been reported to have the highest discoverability of disinformation (https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-66926080). 

My project aims to detect fake news on X using a dataset on X posts, sourced from https://www.unb.ca/cic/datasets/truthseeker-2023.html. This dataset includes real and fake news as X posts. By using machine learning, I will train a model to identify real and fake news. 
